                                ==================
                                SPACE TREAT DELUXE
                                ==================

                             © 2003 Fabrizio Zavagli

                           - GAME PROGRAM INSTRUCTIONS -

INTRODUCTION
------------
Your planet, a peaceful Class M world, has always been living in harmony and
this allowed its people to quickly evolve into the space era. Anyway, as you 
might have guessed, no good is going to last. There came a time where the forces 
of evil, namely your neighbor planet, started to strike against you. The evil 
planet's inhabitants are quite different. They don't care about nature and 
peace. They are greedy, and only think about consuming the planet's sources to 
gain more and more riches. This quickly led to a total draining of anything 
their planet had to offer, making them more and more envious of your prospering 
world. Unable to obtain any more of their environment, the evil planet sent its 
combat drones to attack your world, aiming at stealing your food resources. 
Unfortunately, they're succeeding in getting their tentacles on your valuable 
goods, trapping them in a space cage above your planet...


OBJECT OF THE GAME
------------------
Your mission is to bring back as much food as possible before the drones take it 
away with them.


HOW TO PLAY
-----------
To play Space Treat, use a joystick in the left port. Directions are as follows:

                MOVE UP/LEAVE BASE
                        ^ 
                        |   
                       \|/
         MOVE LEFT <--- O ---> MOVE RIGHT
                       /|\
                        |  
                        v 
            MOVE DOWN/CONNECT TO BASE

-	The joystick button and Reset switch start the game.
-	Also use the Reset switch on your console to get back to the title screen.
-	With PAL version, use the right difficulty switch to toggle
	between 50hz and 60hz mode (60hz mode recommended).
-	All other console switches are unused.

In order to complete your mission, you will have to guide your ship to the upper 
level of the screen, where the cage (represented as a horizontal line) is 
located, while avoiding the mortal contact with the enemy drones. Position the 
ship under the opening (door) in the cage and push UP to collect the food. At 
this point, the enemy will detect you and send a new drone, so quickly get back 
to the base in order to move on to the next level. After the first few stages, 
the door in the cage will become locked. You will be forced to collect a 
Passkey, graphically represented as a square, to unlock the cage.

During your trips, you will have to keep an eye on the fuel level that 
constantly decreases once your leave the ground. When it's low, it will become 
yellow. Should it turn red, your ship will move slower and if it runs out, you'd 
better prepare the next ship! But be careful, because you have a limited supply 
of 6 ships. You will also lose one when crashing against drones. Getting your 
ship destroyed will also result in losing the food you're carrying.  Maneuver 
carefully!


LEVELS
------
Space Treat contains 99 levels of increasing difficulty.
The first 2 levels are the easiest ones, useful for basic control practice. 
Starting from level 3, the cage containing food will be locked and you will have 
to collect a Passkey in order to open it.
Level 7 and above are the most difficult ones, with speeding drones adopting 
advanced movement patterns.
Level structures change each time you play.
Every new game is a different challenge!


SCORING
-------
100 points for each remaining ship at the end of level
10 points for each fuel unit saved at the end of level
1000 points for clearing level without losing a life
Additional bonus ranging from 10 to 1000 for each stage cleared
 (bonus amount depends on your current level)

PLAYING TIPS
- Always carefully choose the location where you will leave your base, as the 
  fuel will not decrease while you're connected to it, but you won't be able to 
  get back to the base until you collect the food.
- Take some time to examine the movement patterns of the drones to find the best 
  place and time to start your trip, both upward and downward.
- You can take a break between levels, since the game will wait for you to push 
  the fire button before starting a new screen.

ABOUT THE GAME
--------------
Space Treat was started in May 2002 as my first homebrew. The idea has evolved a 
lot during the creation process, with many features being included or scrapped. 
A lot of suggestions came from the people on the Stella List, and great support 
from the AtariAge forums and other individuals.


ABOUT THE AUTHOR
----------------
I started my programming experience as a kid, once I understood that creating 
games could have been at least as much fun as playing them. Being quite too 
young to fully understand 6502 assembler on my Commodore 64, my early years 
passed by with mostly basic programming. But the call for speed was strong, and 
I often tried my hand at 8-bits assembler. By the end of the '64 era, I'd 
managed to grasp the basics of machine language. After the C64 came the Amiga, 
along with the powerful and readable 68000 assembler. That's where I've had most 
of my assembler activity, coding demos that were released in the, at the time, 
intense demo group scene. Long hours spent on assembler can really open your 
mind to the inner workings of hardware and software, something that's being lost 
as more and more generations of programming languages surface. Nowadays, even if 
my daily job is not related to games or low-level programming, I keep doing asm 
coding for fun, both because I love Atari and since it's a great exercise.


ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
---------------
Without the help and support from the following people, this game would have 
never been started and much less finished:

- Cristina
- AtariAge (Albert Yarusso and Alex Bilstein)
- Randy Crihfield
- Thomas Jentzsch, Manuel Polik, Dennis Debro, Eckhard Stolberg, Andrew 
  Davie, Paul Slocum and all the people on the Stella List (sorry all others I've 
  forgotten!)
- All the great guys from the AtariAge forums
- Daryl Litts
- Davide Pasca (Kazzuya)
- Fabrizio Farenga
- Fabio Pacifici (Jag)
- Lorenzo Lapi
- Antonio Daniele
- Christian Padovano
- Sergio Paolantonio (Raoul)

...and everyone else who took the time to write in to support the creation of 
Space Treat! 

CONTACT INFORMATION
-------------------
Contact Fabrizio Zavagli: http://www.rasty.com - rasty@rasty.com
The game can be ordered on cartridge fro http://www.atariage.com
Selling this game without the author's authorization is prohibited.


HISTORY NOTES ON SPACE TREAT
----------------------------
- Space Treat first Solid State release: CGE2k2 (August 10-11 2002) as a Special 
  Edition
- Space Treat .BIN release: August 12, 2002
- Space Treat Deluxe release: PhillyClassic 4 (March 28-30, 2003)
- Space Treat Deluxe binaries + sources released (NTSC and PAL): May 21, 2003
- Developed with z26 and CyberStella emulators and a CuttleCart.
